# Automatic-Documentation-and-speech-summarization

The technology of automatic document summarization is maturing and may provide a solution to the information overload problem. Nowadays, document summarization plays an important role in information retrieval. With a large volume of documents, presenting the user with a summary of each document greatly facilitates the task of finding the desired documents. Document summarization is a process of automatically creating a compressed version of a given document that provides useful information to users. The main goal of a summary is to present the main ideas in a document in less space.

This project presents a speech summarization system and automated documentation process that uses data from speakers during conferences or meetings. It models the speech to complete text documentation and condenses the predicted document by summarizing it with speaker output. Speaker and language are the two primary factors that influence speech generation. It mainly consists of two modules- Speech recognition- speech to text conversion and speech summarising. The main aim of this project is to produce a brief description of the speech using keyword extraction. Thus the first step is to recognize the voice of the speaker and to recognize the speech signal, this speech signal is then converted into text using language models. The converted text as a whole is given as input to the speech summarizer which further cuts short the given text to brief summary of the speech as a whole.

Models used: Google API and pocket sphinx, text rank summarization algorithm

